4 Steps of the Embedded (or IoT) Product Development Life Cycle
    
Step 1. Planning and Analysis
    1.  Idea
    2.  The Need
    3.  Target Audience
    4.  Requirements
    5.  Competitors
    6.  Concept

Step 2. Designing
    1.  Architecture
        Should reflect hardware and software components that in combination will ensure the performance of target functions.
    2.  Technical Resources
        1.  Development Kits
        2.  Software Development Tools
    3.  Development Team
        1.  Embedded software engineer
        2.  Hardware engineer
        3.  PCB layout engineer
        4.  Mechanical engineer
        
Step 3. Implementation
    1.  Alpha Prototype
        A raw product that reveals functional issues and requires certain adjustments.
    2.  Beta Prototype
        A version that is ready for production.

Step 4. Commercial Launch
    1.  Procurement of components and setting up the manufacturing.
    2.  Production
    3.  Post manufacturing testing
    4.  Assembling.
    5.  Shipping
    6.  Post-production support and maintenance.
    
There are five main stages of the software development life cycle:
	1.	Requirement: 
		In this phase, the customer fills a requirement form to write what they actually need from the product.
	2.	Analysis: 
		In this phase, the requirements are converted into documents and cover all the functional requirement specifications.
	3.	Design: 
		In this phase, the design of the product is prepared. The requirements are converted into architecture design. This phase includes:
		1.	Low-Level Design Documentation (LLD) 
		2.	High-Level Design Documentation (HLD) 
	4.	Coding:
		In this phase, the requirements are converted into a coded form.
	5.	Testing:
		In this phase, the software under development is tested for product quality. This includes 2 types:
		1.	Static testing 
		2.	Dynamic testing 
	6.	Maintenance:
		In this phase, the maintenance of the product is implemented. 
		
Levels of testing in embedded systems
	There are four levels of testing in embedded systems: 
	1.	Unit testing 
	2.	Integration testing 
	3.	System testing 
	4.	User acceptance testing

    