01.	Can you tell me how to check whether a linked list is circular?
	1.	Store the header node into some other variable and then transverse the list.
	2.	A linked list is not circular, if we get null at the next part of any node and if the next node is the same as the stored node, then it is a circular linked list.
	3.	An empty linked list is also considered a circular linked list.
	
02.	What is dynamic data structure? 
	1.	While performing operations, the size of the structure is not fixed and can vary according to the requirement in the dynamic data structure.
	2.	This data structure is designed to facilitate the change of data structures in the run time.
	3.	The data in memory has the flexibility to grow or shrink in size.
	4.	This data structure can “overflow” if it exceeds its limit. 
	
03.	What is static variable in C?
	The variable that is defined only once and the compiler retains its value even after they exit the scope are called Static Variables. They are declared using static keyword.
	
04.	What is extern in C?
	Extern often referred to as global variables are declared outside the function but are available globally throughout the function execution. The value of this variable can be changed/modified and the default value is zero. These are declared using the “extern” keyword.

05.	What is volatile in C?
	Volatile is a keyword in C which when applied to a variable at the time of declaration tells the compiler that the value of that variable will change at any time.
	
06.	What is dangling pointer in C?
	If a programmer fails to initialize a pointer with a valid address, then the pointer is known as a dangling pointer in C. Dangling pointers point to a memory location that has been deleted.

07.	What is the use of the volatile keyword in Embedded C?
	The volatile keyword is used to tell the compiler that a variable's value can be changed outside the program's normal flow (e.g., by an interrupt, hardware, or external event). This prevents the compiler from optimizing the variable's access and ensures that the program always reads the actual value from memory.

08.	Explain the concept of "bitwise operators" with examples.
	Bitwise operators operate on individual bits of integer data types. These operators are used to manipulate data at the bit level and are essential for embedded systems programming, where control over specific bits is often necessary (e.g., for configuring hardware registers or setting flags). Common Bitwise Operators:
	1.	AND (&): Performs a bitwise AND operation. Only bits set in both operands are set in the result.
	2.	OR (|): Performs a bitwise OR operation. If a bit is set in either operand, it is set in the result.
	3.	XOR (^): Performs a bitwise exclusive OR operation. Bits are set in the result only if they are set in one operand but not both.
	4.	NOT (~): Inverts all the bits of the operand.
	5.	Shift Left (<<): Shifts bits to the left, effectively multiplying the value by powers of 2.
	6.	Shift Right (>>): Shifts bits to the right, effectively dividing the value by powers of 2.

09.	What are the common data types used in Embedded C?
	1.	int: Typically used for integer values. In embedded systems, int is usually 16-bit or 32-bit, depending on the architecture.
	2.	char: Represents a single byte, often used for ASCII characters or small integers.
	3.	float and double: Used for floating-point arithmetic. However, these are avoided in highly resource-constrained systems due to their higher computational cost and limited precision.
	4.	long: An extended version of int, used for larger integer values.
	5.	Modifiers:
		a.	signed: Indicates that the variable can hold both positive and negative values.
		b.	unsigned: Indicates that the variable can only hold non-negative values, which is often used for flags or counters in embedded systems.
	6.	Pointer Types: Pointers are heavily used in Embedded C to reference memory locations and hardware registers.
	7.	Structures (struct): Structures are used to group different data types together, often for representing a complex peripheral (e.g., a UART register structure).
	8.	Volatile: Used to declare variables that may be modified by hardware or an interrupt, which ensures that the compiler doesn’t optimize them out.
	9.	Fixed-Size Types: Libraries like stdint.h provide fixed-width integer types, such as int8_t, uint16_t, and uint32_t, to ensure the data types have predictable sizes, especially on platforms with varying word sizes.

10.	What is the role of a compiler in Embedded C programming?
	The compiler in Embedded C programming serves as a tool that translates the C source code into machine-readable code (binary or object code) that can be executed by the target microcontroller. The process typically involves several stages:
	1.	Preprocessing: The preprocessor handles macros (#define), includes header files (#include), and other preprocessor directives.
	2.	Compilation: The compiler translates the source code into an intermediate assembly or object code. The compiler optimizes the code for the target architecture to improve performance or reduce size.
	3.	Assembly: The assembly code is converted into machine code, which is the low-level code that the microcontroller understands.
	4.	Linking: The linker combines the object code with other libraries or files (such as system libraries) to create the final executable. It also resolves references to variables or functions.
	5.	Optimization: In Embedded C, optimization is crucial. The compiler often has various options to optimize for speed, size, or power consumption, depending on the embedded system’s requirements.

11.	What are the advantages of using volatile in Embedded C programming?
	The volatile keyword tells the compiler that a variable may change at any time, often outside the scope of the program (e.g., by an interrupt or hardware peripheral). Advantages:
	1.	Prevents Optimization: Without volatile, the compiler might optimize away accesses to variables it assumes don’t change, leading to incorrect behavior in embedded systems (e.g., variable values read from hardware registers).
	2.	Interrupts: Ensures that variables modified by an interrupt handler are not cached by the compiler, which is important for correct interrupt-driven behavior.
	3.	Hardware Registers: When dealing with memory-mapped hardware registers, volatile ensures that every read/write operation is executed, preventing the compiler from optimizing or caching it.

12.	What are inline functions and why are they used in Embedded C?
	Inline functions are functions that are expanded in place where they are called, rather than being invoked through a traditional function call mechanism. This is achieved by the inline keyword in C.
	1.	Performance:
		1.	Inline functions eliminate the overhead of a function call, as the code is directly inserted where the function is called. This can be beneficial in time-critical embedded systems where minimizing overhead is essential.
	2.	Code Optimization:
		1.	By using inline functions, compilers can optimize code by eliminating unnecessary function calls, especially in tight loops or frequently called functions.
	3.	Memory Efficiency:
		1.	Although inline functions increase code size by duplicating the function body at each call site, in some cases, they may help optimize the use of memory by eliminating stack operations involved in function calls.
	4.	Simplicity and Readability:
		1.	Inline functions make the code more readable and reusable while avoiding code duplication for small utility functions.
	5.	However, the compiler may ignore the inline keyword if it determines that inlining is not beneficial (e.g., for large functions).

13.	Explain the use of volatile and const in Embedded C with examples.
	1.	volatile:
		1.	The volatile keyword tells the compiler that the value of a variable can be changed unexpectedly, typically by hardware (e.g., a peripheral register) or an interrupt service routine (ISR). This prevents the compiler from optimizing the variable, ensuring that every read or write operation accesses the variable directly, as expected.
		2.	Use Case: If a variable is modified by hardware or external factors, and you need the most current value during each read, volatile ensures that the compiler does not optimize out necessary reads and writes.
	2.	const:
		1.	The const keyword ensures that the value of a variable cannot be modified after initialization. It is commonly used for defining constants, read-only memory regions, or immutable data.
		2.	Use Case: Prevent accidental modification of critical configuration parameters or constant values that should remain unchanged.

15.	What is a build system and why is it important for compilation? 
	1.	A build system automates the process of compiling source code, linking, and generating executables or libraries. It manages dependencies and only recompiles files that have changed, saving time and avoiding redundant work.
	2.	Example: make is a popular build system using Makefile scripts to define build rules and dependencies.

16.	How do static and dynamic linking differ? 
	1.	Static linking: All necessary library code is copied into the final executable during linking. Resulting binary is self-contained but larger. 
	2.	Dynamic linking: Libraries are loaded at runtime. Executable contains references but not the library code, resulting in smaller files and sharing libraries across programs. 
	3.	Example: Windows .exe often uses dynamic linking for DLLs; embedded systems typically prefer static linking.

17.	What is a linking error and how can it be resolved? 
	1.	Linking errors occur when the linker can’t find references to external symbols (functions or variables). 
	2.	Example: Missing definition for a function declared in a header causes: undefined reference to 'myFunc' 
	3.	Resolved by ensuring the object file or library implementing the symbol is included in the link command.

18.	How do linker scripts work, and how do they help place code and data in memory regions?
	1.	Linker scripts define memory layout and control placement of code and data sections. 
	2.	They assign sections like .text, .data, .bss to specific addresses or memory banks.
	3.	Crucial for embedded to optimize limited memory and define vector tables, RAM, and peripheral mappings.	

19.	What is a symbol table and where is it stored? 
	1.	A symbol table stores names of variables/functions with memory addresses and scope info, typically embedded in object or executable files to enable linking and debugging.
	
20.	Can object files contain debug information, and how is it utilized? 
	1.	Yes, object files can include debug symbols mapping compiled code to source code lines, used by debuggers (e.g., GDB) for source-level debugging.
	
21.	What are ELF sections .text, .data, and .bss used for? 
	1.	.text: Executable code 
	2.	.data: Initialized global/static variables 
	3.	.bss: Uninitialized global / static variables (initialized to zero at runtime)
	
22.	Why is binary size optimization critical in embedded development?
	1.	Embedded devices have limited flash and RAM.
	2.	Smaller binaries reduce memory and power consumption.
	3.	Allows fitting more features or complex logic within constraints.
	4.	Techniques: function inlining, dead code elimination, link-time optimization.

23.	How can conditional preprocessing directives impact firmware builds?
	1.	Enable/disable features or debugging code.
	2.	Produce different firmware variants from the same source.
	3.	Manage hardware differences across target boards.
	4.	Example: 
			#ifdef DEBUG 
				printf("Debug info\n"); 
			#endif




